# Fixed Partitioning
Assuming entire address space of process must be in main memory and the process uses a contiguous chunk of memory, we need to figure out how we can partiiton the main memory for each process.

* The number of active processes is limited by the number of partitions
* We may get *internal fragmentation*, where a process is smaller than the partition, and memory is wasted.
* Additionally, programmers must deal with programs that exceed the partition size (*overlays*)

## Equal-sized Partitions
In equal-sized fixed partitioning, we divide memory into equal sized regions. For example, if we have 32MB memory, we may divide into 4 chunks of 8MB each.

Processes can load into any available partition.

## Unequal-sized Partitions
We may decide to partition our main memory into different sizes to accomodate for different memory sizes of processes. For example, 32MB of memory maybe divided into 2 partitions of 4MB each, 1 partition of 8MB, and 1 partition of 16MB.  

We can queue up processes for available partitions in two ways: 

**Queue per partition** - We have a queue of processes for each partition, and assign a process to the smallest size partition it can fit. In this policy, if there are many small size processes, a larger partition may go unused as all the processes queue up for the smaller partitions.

**Single queue** - We assign processes to the smallest *available* partition. In this policy, processes will fill up all the partitions as they are available.
