# Aggression
Aggression is the behaviour with the purpose of harming another. Can be another member of the same species or towards another species.

All humans aggress, some are more likely than others to do so. Based on some factors:
* biological factors:
	* genetics
	* sex - males are overall more aggressive than females
	* testosterone levels
* environmental factors
	* culture
	* societal expectations

Males are on the whole more aggressive than females.

Males are more physically aggressive than they are relationally aggressive.

Females are more relationally aggressive than they are physically aggressive.

Aggression is **evolutionarily adaptive**. However, aggression has decreased significantly in the last century.

Because of the short time that aggression has decreased, it suggests that there is another factor other than evolution that affects aggression Certain cultures are far more (or less) violent than others.
* scarcity of resources
* gender equality


### Frustration-Aggression Hypothesis
Animals aggress against another animal when their desires are frustrated.

Some argue that this hypothesis is too narrow. For example, people are more likely to aggress on hot days/months. Murder rates go up, pitches are more likely to hit the batter, etc.

Others argue that this can also be reduced to the frustration-aggression hypothesis. People want to have a good day, and the heat gets in the way.

### Testosterone
Testosterone does not appear to directly cause aggression. It appears to decrease and individuals' **threat assessment**. People with more testosterone are less afraid of retaliation.
