# Cooperation
Behavior where two or more individuals work together that leads to mutual benefit. Cooperation is another way of solving our scarcity of resources.

We don't cooperate all the time because cooperation is risky. Sometimes people take advantage of other people's cooperation (working with someone in a group project who doesn't pull their own weight). Or, a group member having a different goal in mind (to sabotage the group).

To minimize the risk, we cooperate in groups. Collections of people that have something in common that distinguishes them from others. i.e. families, teams, religions, ethnicities, nations, etc.

Tend to have **positive prejudices** and exhibit **positive discrimination** toward members of our in-group.

Group cognition is deeply enrained in human evolution
* present in non-human primates
* arises in early childhood
* can be caused spontaneously and arbitrarily (people with same color shirts, arm band color, sports teams)

## Ingroup/Outgroup biases
We often have in-group and out-group beliefs we're not aware of, called **implicit biases**. Can affect behaviours, cognitions, and emotions in subtle ways.

[Implicit Association Test](https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/canada/takeatest.html) is a way to measure these biases. It asks you to categorize things in a binary way. Instead of asking you about your biases directly, it measures your reaction time to categorizing things. Humans are slower at processing information that conflicts with our cognition.

## Group cognition
Groups make cooperation less risky, but groups also have risks to decision making:
* **Common Knowledge Effect** - Instead of talking about a topic that a small subset of the group are familiar with, groups will talk about more common topics that can be discussed with everyone in the group.
* **Group Polarization** - Groups can make decisions that are more extreme than any member would have made alone. If a group of scared people are together, they become even more scared by talking to each other.
* **Deindividuation** - Groups cause people to be less concerned with personal values. Gang member could do some action that they would not have committed if they were alone, but they become less concerned with consequences when they are together.
* **Groupthink** - Decisions in groups take a long time, debating back and forth, and sharing ideas. They can reach a concensus too early, to get it over with, or peer pressure from vocal members of the group.
* **Diffusion of Responsibility** - Individuals feel diminished responsibility for their actions when surrounded by others acting the same way. If there is a car crash, you may drive past thinking 'someone else will just help them'

Group cognition is thought to have evolved to help us survive from scarcity of resources. We think that people outside the group will steal resources from the group. As we have more resources than we need, hopefully our ingroup bises will subside, which seems to be the case historically.
