# Selectivity
Humans are **selective** in terms of their sexual partners. Women more so than men, perhaps for:
* Biological reasons - Men can reproduce almost any time (sperm count), but women only about once a year.
* Societal pressure - Societally, men are expected to approach, while women are to be approached.

Selectivity is based on some factors:
* Physical Attraction
	* Varies from culture to culture
	* Beauty is universally beneficial
	* First thing we notice
* Situational Attraction
	* We try hard to like people that we are around
	* Tend to befriend people we have to spent a lot of time with (Mere Exposure Effect)
	* Especially in **psychologically arousing** situations (on a shaking bridge)
	* Perhaps the greatest factor in attraction
* Psychological Attraction
	* Easy to interact with people who are similar
	* Makes us feel confident that we are right
	* People more similar to us also *like* us more
	* Data shows "opposites attract" don't hold

## Social Influence
We all engage in (the attempt to) control other individuals

### Hedonic Motivation
Control people by appealing to their hedonic desires. Includes actions such as:
* Giving bonuses to hard working employees
* Rewarding children with snacks
* Government fines/jail sentences

Can backfire, if we convert some intrinsic motivation (kids who enjoy drawing), into extrinsic motivation (get a prize if you do).

### Approval Motivation
Appeal to an individuals desire for approval. We are motivated to have others like us and approve of us.

We follow the norms, as it makes us more likable (normative influence), but causes us to conform to the behaviour of others.
