# Commercial Banks
Banks are a *financial intermediary* that accepts deposits from savers, and converts these deposits into loans to borrowers and other investments.

The balance sheet of a commercial/charter bank consists of:

|Assets|Liabilities and Equity|
|---|---|
|Loans|Deposits|
|Bank reserves|Equity(Bank's capital)|

$$Equity=Loans+Bank\ reserves-Deposits=Bank's\ capital$$

> **Bank reserves** refers to currency held in banks' vaults and banks' deposits at the central bank, which acts as a banker's bank (i.e. Bank of Canada).

## Fractional Reserve Banking
In a fractional reserve banking system, banks only hold a small fraction of the deposits as reserves, and loan out the remaining amount. This ratio is called the **reserve ratio**:
$$Reserve\ Ratio = \frac{Bank\ reserves}{Deposits}$$

If banks face sudden, rapid withdrawals, there might not be enough cash to satisfy the demand, leading to a bank failure and a bank run. Additionally, this can lead to withdrawals from other banks, leading to a banking crisis.

The bank tries to hold a desired/voluntary reserve ratio, adjusting the amount of loans to bring the reserve ratio back to the desired level. **Excess reserves** are not held by the bank.
$$Excess\ reserves=Actual\ reserves-Desired\ reserves$$

If there are no excess reserves, the bank's balance sheet is at equilibrium.

## Banking Regulation
In Canada, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) is responsible for regulating commercial banks, using the following tools:
1. **Provision of deposit insurance** - Accounts under $100,000 are insured, and would be paid out in the event that the bank goes under
2. **Capital requirements** - Banks are required to hold more assets than the value of their bank deposits (i.e. bank's equity has to be positive)

## Money Creation
For the model we make the following assumptions:
* Money supply is defined as M1+
* The desired/voluntary reserve ratio is held fixed at $10\%$
* People hold a constant amount of $\$100$ and will deposit excessive amounts into the bank

The initial balance sheet of the bank is given as follows, and is at equilibrium:

|Assets| |Liabilities and Equity| |
|---|---|---|---|
|Loans|$940|Demand deposits|$1000|
|Bank reserves|$100|Equity|$40|

Suppose someone found an additional $\$20$, and deposits it into the bank. This causes the bank to have excess reserves.
$$rr=\frac{120}{1020}=11.76\%$$
To bring the balance sheet back to equilibrium, the bank keeps $10\%$ of the deposit in reserves, and loans out the remaining $90\%$.

|Assets| |Liabilities and Equity| |
|---|---|---|---|
|Loans|$958|Demand deposits|$1020|
|Bank reserves|$102|Equity|$40|

The person who took out the loan goes out to purchase goods. Now, the seller has excess money, and re-deposits it back into the bank. The bank then resplits that amount between reserves and loans.

|Assets| |Liabilities and Equity| |
|---|---|---|---|
|Loans|$958+16.2|Demand deposits|$1020+18|
|Bank reserves|$102+1.8|Equity|$40|

If the loan creation process continues forever, the maximum amount of demand deposits generated by the initial $20 deposit is:
$$\begin{align}
DD&=\frac{1}{rr}\times reserves\\
\Delta DD&=\frac{1}{rr}\times \Delta reserves\\
\Delta DD&=\frac{1}{0.1}\times $20=$200
\end{align}$$

The final balance sheet of the bank, when it is back in equilibrium is:

|Assets| |Liabilities and Equity| |
|---|---|---|---|
|Loans|$940+$180|Demand deposits|$1000+$200|
|Bank reserves|$100+$20|Equity|$40|

The level of money supply after the bank is in equilibrium is:
$$MS=CC+DD=$100+$1200=$1300$$
