# Central Banks
An institution that oversees and regulates the banking system. It also designs and implements monetary policy.

## Bank of Canada
The Bank of Canada is Canada's central bank. It does the following:
1. Serves as the *lender of last resort*.
2. Acts as a banker for the federal government. Collecting taxes, transfer payments, etc.
3. Issues currency
4. Conducts monetary policy, which will affect interest rate and exchange rates

The Bank of Canada does not have **complete** control over the money supply. However, it has good control over the country's **monetary base**.
$$Monetary\ Base=Currency\ in\ Circulation+Bank\ Reserves$$

In monetary theory, we believe there is a relationship between monetary base and the money supply, called the **money multiplier**.
$$Money\ Multiplier=\frac{Money\ Supply}{Monetary\ Base}$$

When there is a change in monetary base, there will be changes in chartered bank's lending behaviour. This affects the amount supported by direct deposits, leading to a change in money supply.

## Structure of the Bank of Canada
The Bank of Canada has the following structure:
* It is owned by the federal government
* It is granted autonomy to carry out its responsibilities
* Operations are overseen by a board of directions (12 directors from outside the BOC, the Governor, and the Senior Deputy Governor)
* The Deputy Minister of FInance sits on the board as a non-voting member
* The Governor of the BOC is appointed on a renewable seven-year term
* The Minister of Finance could issue a written directive to the Governor specifying a change in monetary policy. If the governor disagrees, the governor will resign.

## Reserve Requirements
By adjusting the reserve requirements, it affects the amount of loans that banks can make for a given amount of deposits.

An increase in reserve ratio leads to:
* Decrease in demand deposits
* Decrease in the money supply

## Bank Rate
In the case that a bank is low in liquidity, and is unable to meet withdrawal demands, they will try to:
1. Borrow from each other first in the overnight market
2. Borrow from the Bank of Canada at an interest rate called the **bank rate**, which is higher than the overnight rate.

During normal times, the Bank of Canada sets the target for the overnight rate eight times a year. Adjusting the target for the overnight rate can change the money supply.

Raising the overnight rate leads to an incentive to hold more reserves for any given amount of deposits.

## Open Market Operations
Purchases and sales of government bonds by the central bank. 
* **Open Market Purchase** - Purchase of a government bond by the central bank
* **Open Market Sale** - Sale of a government bond by the central bank

For the model, we make the following assumptions:
1. The public will deposit amounts in excess of $100
2. The chartered bank is initially in equilibrium, with $10\%$ reserve ratio.

The bank's balance sheet is initially in equilibrium, and is given as:

|Assets| |Liabilities and Equity| |
|---|---|---|---|
|Loans|$940|Demand deposits|$1000|
|Bank reserves|$100|Equity|$40|

Suppose the central bank buys a $10 bond from you. The $10 profit is then deposited into the bank, and triggers the [[15.2-Commercial Banks#Money Creation|loaning cycle]] in order to bring the bank back to equilibrium.
$$\Delta DD=\frac{1}{0.1}$10=$100$$

|Assets| |Liabilities and Equity| |
|---|---|---|---|
|Loans|$940+$90|Demand deposits|$1100|
|Bank reserves|$100+$10|Equity|$40|

After the purchase of the $10 worth of bonds, the maximum change in money supply is:
$$\begin{align}
Initial\ MS&=$100(CC)+$1000(DD)=$1100\\
New\ MS&=$100(CC)+$1100(DD)=$1200\\
\Delta MS&=New\ MS-Initial\ MS\\
&=$1200-$1100\\
&=$100
\end{align}$$

Alternatively, the maximum change in money supply can come from currency in circulation, or demand deposit.
$$\Delta MS=\Delta CC+\Delta DD$$

## Deposit Switching
Refers to the moving of government deposits between the Bank of Canada and the chartered banks. It is used by the BOC in its day-to-day operations.

This causes a change in the monetary base, since a deposit from the government increases its bank reserves.

Suppose the BOC transfers government deposits from the BOC to the chartered bank:
* Deposits and reserves of the chartered bank increases
* Demand deposits increases
* Money supply increases

## Interest/Money Supply Targeting
The Bank of Canada can pursue:
* **Money supply targeting** - Keeping money supply at pre-specified level
* **Interest rate targeting** - Keeping interest rate at a pre-specified level

The BOC does not have complete control over the money supply, but it can control the overnight rate almost perfectly. Hence, the BOC pursues **interest rate targeting**, rather than money supply targeting.

It is easier for households and firms to understand the implications of a change in interest rate than a change in money supply. So, households are more likely to respond in the way that bankers want them to.
