# Research Ethics
The American Psychological Association (APA) has developed a series of five ethical principles to help psychologists develop their research practice.

## Fidelity and Responsibility
People participating have to entrust themselves to the researcher.
* Researchers have to be honest with participants about potential risks
* Participants should be prepared for what to expect and make informed decisions on whether to participate
* Colleagues have to hold high standards of conduct and take action if necessary
* Must interfere if any situation may harm participants

## Integrity
Engage in accurate, honest, and non-biased practices. Strive to communicate results to colleagues and public accurately without
* **Fabrication** - Making up the data
* **Falsification** - Manipulating research data

## Justice
People who participate in research should be the same people who benefit from the outcomes. Should not include or exclude any group from participation for reasons unrelated to the study. In some cases, this principle has its limits:
* **Inclusion criterion** - Limit participation to study a particular group. Study on child development might require an age range
* **Exclusion criterion** - Prevent participation if they cannot address the research question. Adults would not be included in the child development study.
* **Eligibility criteria** - Set of characteristics shared by all participants, to ensure those participating meaningfully help address the research question

## Respect for People's Rights and Dignity
Each person is valued in the research process:
* Take measures to respect and protect participants' rights, privacy and welfare.
* Communicate openly and honestly about details of the study before asking for consent
* Respect of privacy and confidentiality of participants
* Make sure participants are not coerced into participating they might not feel comfortable doing
* Compensation with money or course credit should be reasonable and not excessive

## Vulnerable Populations
Any individual or group of individuals with either of the following criteria:
1. **Decisional impairment** - Participant has diminished capacity to provide informed consent. Children or mentally disabled, for example, may not understand their rights or risks in participation
2. **Situational vulnerability** - Freedom of *choice* to participate is comprised by another source. Coersion of prisoners, obligation of military personnel, economically disadvantaged.

Additionally consierations should be applied in these cases:
* Only conduct research on vulnerable people if normal participants can't answer the research question
* Be responsive to needs, conditions, and priorities of the individual
* Parents and guardians must provide informed consent on behalf, and participant must provide *assent* (affirmative permission)
* Additional safeguards to prevent exploitation, such as an impartial third party to advocate on behalf of the individuals

## Deception
In some studies, informing the real intent of research can change the way participants react and affect the outcome. The IRB approves deception with the following criteria:
1. Research poses nomore than minimal risk to participants
2. Deception does not affect well-being and rights of participants
3. Must justify the use of deception, with no other reasonable alternative
4. Participants should be *debriefed* on what the researcher was investigating, and how their participation contributes to the research question

[!youtube link](https://youtu.be/Kzd6Ew3TraA)

