# Decision Making
We often engage in quick, short-cut thinking based on the heuristics that we discussed [[14.4-Problem Solving#Heuristics|earlier]]. These risk our decision making becoming biased or systematically deviated.

## Confirmation Bias
**Confirmation bias** describes our tendency to seek out information that already confirms our ideas or beliefs. Information that is not consistent with existing beliefs are often ignored or distorted. 

## Framing
The **framing** (presentation) of questions, the order of wording, can affect our decisions. 
* People are not aware of the forces acting on their choices
* People are not aware of their actual preferences
* People are influenced by the way information is presented

- [ ] Check the box below if you **want** to participate in the organ donor program
- [ ] Check the box if you **don't want** to participate in the organ donor program

> People are more likely to leave the form unchecked. The first form results in low rates of participation, while the second form results in high rates of participation.

We believe that we are making rational decisions, but if the decision is hard, we tend to stick with the decision already made for them.

## Emotional Decision Making
Our brains use a lot of resources and processes an overwhelming amount of data. So, we use heuristics to save time where possible. Reliance on experience and emotions is called **intuition**.

We can quickly and unconsciously tap into that stored network to make faster, more intuitive decisions. Decisions based on this quick, automatic system is referred to as **System 1 thinking**. It relies on emotional systems and stored experiences to guide thinking.

## Cognitive Reflection Test
The cognitive reflection test assesses the likelihood that a person overrules our initial heuristic-based decisions.
* System 1 thought processes leads us astray, towards an easier, often incorrect answer
* System 2, logical thinking counteracts these initial instincts.

Example questions are:
```
A bat and a ball cost $1.10 in total. The bat costs a dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost?
```

```
If it takes 5 machines 5 minutes to make 5 widgets, how long would it take 100 machines to make 100 widgets?
```

```
In a lake, there is a patch of lily pads. Every day, the patch doubles in size. If it takes 48 days for the patch to cover the entire lake, how long would it take for the patch to cover half of the lake?
```


