## Summary
This article analyzes the results of the study "Using Public Service Announcements to Change Behavior: No More Money and Oil Down the Drain". The study looks at the effectiveness of public service announcements in changing consumer behavior. Specifically, it aimed to convince do-it-yourself oil changers to responsibly dispose of used oil, which can have negative environmental impacts if poured into the ground, or down the drain. DIY oil changers should instead, dispose of used oil by bringing it to collection centers. The study claims that these campaigns rely on "intuitive theories of human behavior", instead of "established social psychological principles of influence" (Nolan et al., 2009). The study analyzes the effectiveness of radio PSA messages sponsored by the California Integrated Waste Management Board, and tries to identify the underlying factors behind disposal practices. Due to a lack of theoretical foundations, the study hypothesizes that the campaign is ineffective in getting consumers to change their behavior.

Before the study took part, an analysis of the radio messages were conducted. It found that a knowledge-deficit model was used, which assumed the reason behind the lack of proper disposal was due to lack of information (the environmental impacts of improper disposal). The messages also contained a statistic (50% of oil sold is never collected), that implied that this was normative behavior. The study hypothesized that people will "change their behavior in the direction of the norm, whether or not the norm is prosocial" (Nolan et al., 2009). 

"Behavioral intentions related to proper disposal of oil and oil filters" (Nolan et al., 2009) was cited in the study as the main dependent variable. These include "intention to dispose of used oil properly", and "intention to dispose of used oil filters" (Nolan et al., 2009). Independent variables in the study include how many times each participant changed their oil in the past year, and how they disposed of it. 

A sample size of 120 was chosen, so that researchers could use an analysis of variance (ANOVA), which is described as "an analysis tool...that splits an observed aggregate variability...into...systemic factors and random factors" (Kenton, 2022). Participants were assigned to three different groups, one of which listened to the unedited PSA, another with normative information edited out, and the last listening to unrelated PSAs as a control group. Researchers measured various psychological constructs, including perceived behavioral control and subjective norm, through a 25-item questionnaire. Out of the sample, 11 participants were labelled as dumpers, while 109 participants were labelled as good citizens.

The research concluded that "participants in the full and partial PSA conditions expressed no greater intention to dispose of used oil properly than those in the control group" (Nolan et al., 2009). It found the PSAs ineffective in changing the behavior of participants. To determine the factors behind this, futher analysis was conducted on the sample of dumpers. Results showed a lower measure on ascription of responsibility for dumpers, described as "how much personal responsibility an individual accepts for performing the target behavior" (Nolan et al., 2009). Additionally, dumpers scored marginally lower on perceived behavioral control, described as "the extend to which a person perceives that the target behavior is under his or her control" (Nolan et al., 2009). 

## Proposed Experiment
Based on the results of the previous research study, the next study should target the effects of ascription of responsibility and perceived behavioral control on proper oil disposal. For the study, new versions of the PSAs would be created, with greater emphasis on personal responsibility for proper oil disposal.

Similarly to the previous study, participants would be split into full PSA, partial PSA, and control groups. The study would be conducted similarly, in order to compare the results of each study to determine the underlying factors. 

## References
Nolan, J. M., Schultz, P. W., & Knowles, E. S. (2009). Using Public Service Announcements to Change Behavior: No More Money and Oil Down the Drain. _Journal of Applied Social Psychology_, _39_(5), 1035–1056. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1559-1816.2009.00471.x

Kenton, W. (2022, May 19). _Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)_. Investopedia. Retrieved June 19, 2022, from https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/anova.asp